# Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
This app was designed to allow users to track their weight.  Requirements for the app included a database to store user logins, each user’s goal, and each user’s daily weight, the ability to register or log in to use the app, a screen to display all the entered weights as a grid, the ability to add, edit or delete database items (daily weights), the ability for users to create a goal weight to reach, and functionality to request permissions and then send an SMS notification when the goal is met while employing industry standard best practices.

# What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
I created a login screen, a dashboard screen, a goal screen, a weight screen, and an edit weight screen.  On the login screen, the user could type their phone number and password and press a button to login if they have an account, register if they do not, or delete the account.  I thought this would be the easiest and most straight forward way to accomplish this task.  The dashboard screen is purely for the user’s convenience, allowing them a few ways to visualize or contextualize their progress.  I added a graph intended to track their weight over time (though I did not code it for this project) and a feature to display how much weight is remaining until they reach their goal.  The weight screen allows users to add a weight entry and displays all of the user’s weights so they can see their progress in a grid format.  Each weight on the grid has an edit button that brings up the edit weight screen where users can change their weight for that entry or delete it.  The goals screen was designed to give users additional control over how to use the app.  It provided options to customize the type of goal (lose weight, gain weight, or maintain weight), the goal weight, and whether they use a goal at all.

# How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?
I approached coding by first creating the database since I would need it to test most features, then I worked on one method or function at a time, deciding the best way to code it, and I would test it until I was confident it was working how I intended.  In general, and for the future, I find it’s easiest to develop one piece of code at a time and then test it (including any ways that it may be used incorrectly, like using invalid input), and then move on.  Using this strategy, when there is an issue, it’s easier to figure out where it’s coming from.  

# How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal?
I started by testing each method was functioning as intended using breakpoints or log output as necessary to confirm things like the values of variables at certain points or that something had been added to or removed from the database.  Once I was confident it worked as intended, wherever possible I tested what would happen if, for example, the user entered invalid input and I tried to address those issues.

# Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
I think the part of development that required the most innovation was designing and planning out the app to accommodate the necessary features.  Figuring out which screens should exist and the layout for each of them specifically was a challenge because I had to decide how many screens I will have, how I will navigate through them, what pieces go well together, or how much can fit on one screen.  Once the structure and flow of the app were planned out, implementing the layout and coding the program felt more guided, I already knew what I wanted to do, even if I may still have had to innovate and adapt at times when things did not work out as hoped.

# In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
I think the goal screen and feature was a good example of my skills because in addition to implementing several UI components (radio buttons, switch, EditText, button) and adding or modifying a database item, it also implemented some optional features that required more complex code like customizing a progress report or erasing it on the dashboard to accommodate for different types of goals.
